README.md, before:

# MESA Contributed Procedures

This repo contains contributed procedures that can be used with the
stellar evolution code [Modules for Experiments in Stellar Astrophysics
(MESA)](http://mesa.sourceforge.net/).

Although this repo is administered by the MESA team and many of the
contributions are from team members, it is *not* part of the main
trunk and the MESA team takes no responsibility for the correctness of
the procedures.  If you are having trouble with a particular
procedure, you should contact the person(s) who contributed that
procedure to see if they can help.

Many of the procedures will have been developed for a particular
scientific purpose and have an associated publication in which the
contributor used that procedure.  If so, please cite the relevant
publication(s) when using that procedure.

## Usage

The `contrib` repo can be used with any version of MESA after r12479
by checking out this repo to some
directory (e.g. `$HOME/mesa-contrib`) and pointing the environment
variable `MESA_CONTRIB_DIR` there. e.g.

    export MESA_CONTRIB_DIR=$HOME/mesa-contrib

Then, `$MESA_CONTRIB_DIR/hooks` will be added to the include path when
compiling a MESA `work` folder.  Use your chosen routine by adding an
`include` statements after `contains` in your `run_star_extras.f90`. e.g.
to use `hooks/try_mesa_contrib.f90`, you would add something like

````f90
    ...
    contains
   
    include 'try_mesa_contrib.f90'       ! add this line
   
    subroutine extras_controls(id, ierr)
       integer, intent(in) :: id
       ...
````

to get access to the (trivial) subroutine `try_mesa_contrib`.  If you
call this at the end of `extras_controls`,

````f90
       ...

       call try_mesa_contrib

    end subroutine
````

you should see the message

````
you're ready to call routines from mesa-contrib
````

shortly after the start of your MESA run.

Commit message:

Sync main with changes in release

README.md, after:

# MESA Contributed Procedures

This repo contains contributed procedures that can be used with the
stellar evolution code [Modules for Experiments in Stellar Astrophysics
(MESA)](http://mesa.sourceforge.net/).

Although this repo is administered by the MESA team and many of the
contributions are from team members, it is *not* part of the main
trunk and the MESA team takes no responsibility for the correctness of
the procedures.  If you are having trouble with a particular
procedure, you should contact the person(s) who contributed that
procedure to see if they can help.

Many of the procedures will have been developed for a particular
scientific purpose and have an associated publication in which the
contributor used that procedure.  If so, please cite the relevant
publication(s) when using that procedure.

## Usage

To use `contrib`, you must already be familiar with
[extending MESA using `run_star_extras.f90`](https://docs.mesastar.org/en/latest/using_mesa/extending_mesa.html).

The `contrib` repo can be used with any version of MESA after r12479
by checking out this repo to some
directory (e.g. `$HOME/mesa-contrib`) and pointing the environment
variable `MESA_CONTRIB_DIR` there. e.g.

    export MESA_CONTRIB_DIR=$HOME/mesa-contrib

Then, `$MESA_CONTRIB_DIR/hooks` will be added to the include path when
compiling a MESA `work` folder.  Use your chosen routine by adding an
`include` statements after `contains` in your `run_star_extras.f90`. e.g.
to use `hooks/try_mesa_contrib.f90`, you would add something like

````f90
    ...
    contains
   
    include 'try_mesa_contrib.f90'       ! add this line
   
    subroutine extras_controls(id, ierr)
       integer, intent(in) :: id
       ...
````

to get access to the (trivial) subroutine `try_mesa_contrib`.  If you
call this at the end of `extras_controls`,

````f90
       ...

       call try_mesa_contrib

    end subroutine
````

you should see the message

````
you're ready to call routines from mesa-contrib
````

shortly after the start of your MESA run.
